---
title: SF to Chicago Road Trip Day 6 | Theater of Shadows
author: Jonah Fleishhacker
layout: post
---

{% include image.html file="road/6/map.jpg" description="Day 6: 223 mi"%}

After a long hiatus, I have decided to finish these posts up. Not that anyone reads them besides myself, but good to have an archive of this fun trip (which has turned out to be a major silver lining of this awful year).

Day 6, 9/14/20: 

This was a day that I was excited for since the beginning of the trip. It was the entire reason we went on that strange detour to City of Rocks in Idaho. Theater of Shadows is a 4 pitch, 500 foot climb on beautiful granite, in a stunning area, with a moderate grade, and great bolting.

We woke up early, eager to get climbing. Even though we got to the base around 8 or 9, we already spotted a party at the top and one at the base. The approach decently challenging, and had pretty great views from the beginning.

{% include image.html file="road/6/approach.jpg"%}

I started off the first pitch, and it was great climbing from the very beginning. Fun moves, totally relaxed because of the frequent protection. After the first pitch, I convinced Max to try out leading for the first time. I figured it was a great place for a first lead, as any fall is protected and there is no chance of decking (plus a fun first lead for the memory books!). 

{% include image.html file="road/6/lead.JPEG"%}

He loved it so much, he begged to lead all the remaining pitches, but we opted to split it 2-2. Here are some photos from the top, with some haze from nearby wildfires.

{% include image.html file="road/6/top.JPEG"%}

{% include image.html file="road/6/selfie.JPEG"%}

Arguably, the rappel was the most exciting part of the climb, needing every inch of the 70m rope (+ rope stretch!) to get down, as well as a heart pumping free hanging rappel into a gorge. It wasn't super clear where to end, and I ended up having to run along the wall to end at a higher spot on my tip toes. Tie your stopper knots!

{% include image.html file="road/6/rappel.jpg"%}

Finally, we ended the day at an overpriced hotel near the Idaho-Wyoming border and did some outdoor dining. One of the best days of our trip.